---
title: thinks.el v1.13
date: 2026-03-31 19:35:16+0100
category: Emacs
tags: Emacs, Emacs Lisp, Lisp, coding, thinks.el
---

Given the recent spate of [hacking on some Emacs Lisp](/tag/blogmore-el/),
I've got a real taste for hacking on some more. Or, more to the point,
revisiting some of the packages I have in [Melpa](https://melpa.org/#/) and
tidying them up where necessary.

The main thing I'll need to address is cutting back on [all my old `setf`
ways](/2022/08/23/i-must-be-getting-old.html). I liked that approach to
doing things, it made lots of sense and felt elegant; sadly the Emacs
maintainers didn't seem to agree.

So... kicking this off I've released v1.13 of
[`thinks.el`](https://github.com/davep/thinks.el). This is a bit of nonsense
I wrote back in the days when Usenet was still pretty busy and *the* place
to be (well, okay, back in 2000 when I was still hanging out on Usenet). The
package itself lets you quickly and easily...

```
. o O ( ...write some text and then mark it all and then run a command and )
      ( have it turned into something that looks a little like a thought   )
      ( bubble.                                                            )
```

It has some variations on how the bubble looks, and also lets you use
`customize` to tweak the characters to use, and also has an "extra silly"
mode too.

Updating this wasn't too bad. Mostly just a case of turning some instances
of `(setf (point) ...)` into `(goto-char ...)`, and also modifying one
instance of `incf` to be `cl-incf`.

Honestly, I don't know how useful this package is to anyone anymore. Most
folk don't even know what Usenet is these days, and all the "social" places
seem to favour non-monospaced fonts, meaning the bubbles would look pretty
terrible anyway.

On the other hand, it seems a shame to not update it, and perhaps someone
somewhere still uses it to make some pithy parenthetical remark, possibly
about [September never
ending](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eternal_September).

[//]: # (2026-03-31-thinks-el-v1-13.md ends here)
