---
title: itch.el v1.3.0
date: 2026-04-24 08:21:24+0100
category: Emacs
tags: Emacs, Emacs Lisp, Lisp, coding, itch.el
---

When I'm working in [Emacs](/category/emacs/) I use the `*scratch*` buffer
quite a bit. I find it especially useful if I'm working on some [Emacs
Lisp](/tag/emacs-lisp/) code, but I also find it handy as a place to drop
something I want to retrieve soon, or a quick note that I want to refer back
to soon; sometimes I even paste some text there and copy it back just to
strip the formatting from it before using it elsewhere[^1].

Because of this, for a long time, I carried a little function around that I
had bound to <kbd>M</kbd>-<kbd>s</kbd> to quickly take me to the `*scratch*`
buffer. Then, I think [around the time I did the follow-up revamp of my Emacs
configuration](/2017/04/01/another_revamp_of_my_emacs_config.html), I turned
it into a little package for my own use called
[`itch.el`](https://github.com/davep/itch.el).

The command (`itch-scratch-buffer`) is simple enough: run it and I get
switched to my `*scratch*` buffer. If I run it with a prefix argument it
switches to `*scratch*` and resets the content back to the
[`initial-scratch-message`](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Lisp-Interaction.html).

More recently I've found that I'm wanting a scratch buffer that is for
writing Markdown. Like many folk I use it a lot for documentation, and of
course I also use it for this blog. I also use it heavily for keeping notes
in Obsidian[^2]. So, often, I find myself switching to a temporary buffer
(`*foo*` or something), setting it to `markdown-mode`, and then writing what
I need.

So yesterday I finally cracked and added `itch-markdown-scratch-buffer`.
It's just like `itch-scratch-buffer`, only it creates a `*scratch:
Markdown*` buffer, using the same clear-if-prefix rule.

So now I've got this bound to <kbd>M</kbd>-<kbd>S</kbd>-<kbd>s</kbd> and I
can faff around just a little less when I want a Markdown scratchpad.

[^1]: On macOS at least, I find the "paste without formatting" support of
    some applications to be really inconsistent; a quick layover in the
    `*scratch*` buffer does the trick every time.
[^2]: Yes, I know, I should be using Org, but sadly it's just never clicked
    for me, and I also find good syncing and having a consistent application
    on mobile and desktop are important.

[//]: # (2026-04-24-itch-el-v1-3-0.md ends here)
