---
title: kbdify.el v1.0.0
date: 2026-04-24 17:04:37+0100
category: Emacs
tags: Emacs, Emacs Lisp, Lisp, coding, kbdify.el, Markdown
---

When I'm writing documentation in [Markdown](/tag/markdown/) I like, where
possible, to mark up keys with the `<kbd>` tag. This was the reason for [one
of the updates to BlogMore](/2026/04/04/blogmore-v2-9-0.html): I'd not done
any good default markup for `<kbd>` and the moment I realised, I knew I had
to fix it.

Now that I'm writing more on this blog, and especially about
[coding](/tag/coding/), I'm mentioning keys pretty often (even more so given
I'm doing a lot of tidying up of my [Emacs Lisp](/tag/emacs-lisp/)
packages). The thing is though: I find having to type out `<kbd>` and
`</kbd>` kind of tedious, and it's something I mistype from time to time. I
guess I could use some sort of HTML tag inserting tool or whatever, but I
got to thinking that it would be handy if I could point an Emacs command at
a particular sequence in a buffer and have it mark up the whole thing.

This resulted in a small bit of code I'm calling
[`kbdify.el`](https://github.com/davep/kbdify.el). It's pretty simple, if
`point` is sat on some text that looks like this:

```
C-M-S-s-<up>
```

and I run `kbdify` I get this:

```
<kbd>C</kbd>-<kbd>M</kbd>-<kbd>S</kbd>-<kbd>s</kbd>-<kbd>&lt;up&gt;</kbd>
```

The result rendering as
<kbd>C</kbd>-<kbd>M</kbd>-<kbd>S</kbd>-<kbd>s</kbd>-<kbd>&lt;up&gt;</kbd>.

I could probably take it a bit further, have it optionally work on a region
and stuff like that, but even in its current simplistic form it's going to
be loads quicker and a lot more accurate and will probably perfectly cover
99% of the times I need it. There is the issue that it's not going to handle
something like `M-x some-command RET` in the way I might like, but then
again `some-command` isn't a key. Like, does it make more sense to have:

> <kbd>M</kbd>-<kbd>x</kbd> <kbd>some-command</kbd> <kbd>RET</kbd>

anyway? Personally I think this:

> <kbd>M</kbd>-<kbd>x</kbd> `some-command` <kbd>RET</kbd>

probably makes more sense.

I think I'm good for now.

[//]: # (2026-04-24-kbdify-el-v1-0-0.md ends here)
