---
title: binclock.el v1.12
date: 2026-04-01 14:30:18+0100
category: Emacs
tags: Emacs, Emacs Lisp, Lisp, coding, binclock.el
---

Some time in the late 1990s, after I'd been using GNU Emacs for a few
years[^1], I grabbed a copy of [Writing GNU Emacs
Extensions](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/writing-gnu-emacs/9781449395056/).
While I'd obviously created and added to and tinkered with my `~/.emacs`
some, I'd never written any non-trivial code. I feel it was around 1998 or
1999 that I really started to get into trying to write actual extensions,
thanks to that book.

I can't remember what the first complete package was. I *think* it was
actually `5x5.el`[^2] but it might also have been
[`binclock.el`](https://github.com/davep/binclock.el). Honestly, it's so
long ago now that I don't have any good recollection and I don't have any
record[^3]. All of which is to say, `binclock.el` is one of my oldest bits
of [Emacs Lisp](/tag/emacs-lisp/) code, so it seemed fair that while I'm
cleaning things up, I should give it a tidy too.

For anyone curious: it's a very simple binary clock type of thing. It opens
a very small window and, depending on your settings, shows the time in
various ways, all of which are in some way a binary display.

I can't say I've honestly ever had it running for more than a few moments,
as an amusement, but I do remember it being a really helpful body of code to
work on to help get familiar with Elisp. So, 27 years on from when I first
opened the buffer to create it, it's tweaked and tidied and hopefully ready
for another 27.

Would be cool if I'm around long enough to give it yet another tweak then.

[^1]: I first met it on OS/2 of all places, in 1994, or thereabouts.

[^2]: Yes, the one that became `Tools > Games > 5x5`.

[^3]: If I was using version control at all then, it was probably just
    `rcs`.

[//]: # (2026-04-01-binclock-el-v1-12.md ends here)
