---
title: BlogMore v2.13.0
date: 2026-04-11 11:32:28+0100
category: Coding
tags: BlogMore, Markdown, PyPI, Python, coding
---

Following on from [yesterday's release of
BlogMore](/2026/04/10/blogmore-v2-12-0.html), I've been looking at some more
information in the Google Search Console, which helped me uncover a couple
more bugs in relation to URL generation.

This time I noticed a couple of issues, both related to the [`clean_urls`
setting](https://blogmore.davep.dev/configuration/#clean_urls). The first
was that, in the [recently added calendar
page](/2026/04/09/blogmore-v2-11-0.html), all of the URLs for the links into
the date-based archive weren't taking `clean_urls` into account. That's now
fixed.

The second problem was the `canonical` `<link>` tag in the headers of the
various archive pages (categories, tags, date-based): none of the URLs used
in the tag were being cleaned up if `clean_urls` was `true`. That's now also
fixed.

The main "problem" those two issues were causing was Google was seeing the
sitemap for my blog declare one URL, but discovering different versions of
the URL elsewhere; the main offending part here being the canonical URL
declaration that disagreed with the sitemap.

To the best of my understanding the above fixes should clean a lot of that
up.

Also in this new release is a small new feature. After cleaning up the
sitemap generation in v2.12.0 I got to thinking that, perhaps, there would
be occasions where a user *would* want to be able to add extra items to the
sitemap. With this in mind I've added the [`sitemap_extras` configuration
property](https://blogmore.davep.dev/configuration/#sitemap_extras). With
this you can declare extra URLs to drop into the sitemap, if one is being
generated.

```yaml
sitemap_extras:
  - /some/path/
  - /some/file.html
```

I don't think I have a use for this right now, I'm not sure I'll ever have a
use for it, but it feels like a low-cost feature to add that could be useful
to someone at some point.

[//]: # (2026-04-11-blogmore-v2-13-0.md ends here)
