---
layout: post
title: "Hello Google Pixel"
categories: []
tags: [ Google, Android, Phone ]
date: 2017-03-08 12:22:05+0000
---

For the past two years I've, mostly, being happily using a Google Nexus 6 as
my phone. In the past six months or so I've started to notice that it hasn't
been quite as good as it was. The main problem, for me, was that the camera
was starting to play out. The issues were the ones that I've seen reported
elsewhere: use of the camera would quickly make the phone laggy, very slow
response times on pressing the shutter, occasional failure to save an image,
etc. This was generally frustrating and, even more so, because [I'd got back
into photoblogging](/2016/11/15/seen_by_davep_(the_return).html).

Meanwhile... I've been lusting over the Google Pixel ever since it was
originally shown off. I was some way off my phone contract renewal and the
price of a new Pixel was something I just couldn't justify. Last week though
an offer cropped up that meant I could renew early *and* get a Pixel
(including a free Daydream headset thrown in).

Fast forward to Monday just gone and...

![My new Pixel](/attachments/2017/03/08/IMG_20170308_120458.jpg)

So far I'm liking it rather a lot. It is odd that it's smaller in my hand
than the Nexus 6 was (the XL wasn't an available option *and* I was also
starting to think it was time to drop down in size a little again) but I'm
also finding it a little easier to work with; it's also nice that it fits in
trouser pockets as well as jacket pockets.

It feels very fast (although every Android phone and tablet I've ever had
have felt fast to start with) and smooth to use. I especially like the
default feedback vibration -- it's a lot smoother yet also more reassuring
than any I've felt before.

The Google Assistant is proving to be very handy. I'm sort of used to it
anyway thanks to having owned an Android Wear watch for a couple of years
but having it on the phone like this seems like a natural next step.

Another thing I'm getting very used to very quickly, and really liking a
lot, is fingerprint recognition. I didn't think I needed it but now I'm
wondering how I ever managed without it. Combined with the notification
pull-down gesture that the recognition area supports it seems like a perfect
way to open the get going with a phone.

There's a couple of niggles with it, of course. The main one for me is the
lack of wireless charging. That was something I really liked about the Nexus
6: I could be sat at my desk and have the phone sat on top of a charging
pad, staying topped up. No such handy setup with the Pixel. The other thing
is the lack of water resistance. To be fair: it's not something I've ever
really felt I *needed* with other phones and I'm not in the habit of
sticking them under water; but knowing that it doesn't matter too much if it
gets exposed to rain would be nice.

Other than that... there's not much else to say right now. It works and
works well, the move from the N6 to it was pretty smooth and the Pixel has
fallen perfectly into my normal routine.
