---
layout: post
title: git2gantt -- Simple tool to visualise coding runs
category: Python
tags: Python, documentation
date: 2019-12-08 13:44:00+0000
---

At the start of this year, as part of a much bigger process to review the
work that had taken place over the previous 12 months, I was asked (at work)
to provide some information about how much time I'd spent on various
projects. Now, for me, there's really only one project, but there's lots of
different tools and libraries that I've written to support the main work I
do. All of these are split into different repositories in the
company-internal instance of [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/). This meant
that getting a rough idea of what I was working on and when would be easy
enough -- it's all there in the commit history.

Given that this information would make up a couple of slides at most during
a far bigger presentation, I wanted something that would be snappy and easy
for non-developers to follow and understand. I spent a bit of time pondering
some options and decided that (ab)using a [gantt
chart](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gantt_chart) layout would make sense.

That choice was made all the more easier given that [GitLab
supports](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/markdown.html#mermaid) the use of
[mermaid charts](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/) within its
Markdown. This meant I could quickly write some code that took the git log
of each repository, turned it into mermaid code, and then render it (by
hand, this was all about getting things done quickly) via GitLab.

This sounded like it could be a fun personal project. The result was some
Python code called [git2gantt](https://github.com/davep/git2gantt).

As mentioned above, the output isn't anything too clever, it's just code
that can be used to create a plot via mermaid. For example, running
git2gannt over itself:

```
gantt
  title git2gantt output
  dateFormat YYYY-MM-DD

  section git2gantt
  Development: devgit2gantt20190208, 2019-02-08, 2019-02-13
  Development: devgit2gantt20190214, 2019-02-14, 2019-02-15
  Development: devgit2gantt20190303, 2019-03-03, 2019-03-04
  Development: devgit2gantt20191203, 2019-12-03, 2019-12-04
```

Usage is pretty straightforward: ![Screenshot 2019-12-08 at
13.18.12.png](/attachments/2019/12/08/Screenshot 2019-12-08 at 13.18.12.png)
As you can see, it can be run over multiple repos at once, and there's also
an option to have it consider every branch within each repository. Another
handy option is the ability to limit the output to just one author --
perhaps you just want to document what you've done on a repo, not the
contributions of other people.

Also especially handy, if you don't want to bore people with too much
detail, is the "fuzz" option. This lets you tell `git2gannt` how relaxed you
want it to be when it tries to decide how long a run of work on a repo
lasted. So, perhaps, you're working on and off on a library that supports
some other system you're documenting, but you might only be making changes
every other day or so. With the correct fuzz value you can make it clear you
were working *on* the library for a couple of weeks, despite there only
being a commit every other day.

An example of running the output over a handful of projects would look
something like this:

![Screenshot 2019-12-08 at 13.34.41.png](/attachments/2019/12/08/Screenshot 2019-12-08 at 13.34.41.png)

This is one of those tools I knocked up quickly to get a job done, and
haven't quite got round to finishing off fully. One thing I'd really like to
do is add mermaid support directly within it, so that it actually has the
option to emit plots, not just mermaid code (or, perhaps, drop the mermaid
approach and use something else entirely).

Meanwhile though, if you're looking for something quick and dirty that will
help you visualise what you've been working on and when for a good period of
time... perhaps this will help.

[//]: # (2019-12-08-git2gantt.md ends here)
