---
layout: post
title: pypath.el -- A little Emacs hack to help with Django
categories: []
tags: Emacs, Python, Django, Lisp
date: 2019-10-19 10:35:00+0100
---

One of the things I really like about coding with Emacs is how I can easily
identify a repeated task and turn it into a command in my environment,
saving me a load of work down the line.

[`pypath.el`](https://github.com/davep/pypath.el) is one such example.

In my day job I write a lot of Django code. As part of that, I write a good
number of unit tests too. Sometimes I'll write the tests as I'm writing the
code they test, other times I'm writing them afterwards; it all really
depends on where my head's at and how the code is flowing.

When I'm writing those tests, I often want to test them as I go. Given that
starting up a test session can take a while, and given that running all the
tests in the system can take a while, it's really handy if I can run that
single test I'm working on.

This is easy enough with Django. In my work environment it's normally
something like:

```sh
$ pipenv run ./manage.py test -v 2 app.test.some.sub.module.TestClass.test_method
```

Only... typing out the:

```python
app.test.some.sub.module.TestClass.test_method
```

part is a bit of a pain. Sure, once you've typed it the once you can use
your shell of choice (mine being [fish](https://fishshell.com/) and on
occasion
[eshell](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/eshell.html))
to recall it from history, but typing it out the first time is the annoying
part.

So this was the point where I took 1/2 hour or so to code up
[`pypath.el`](https://github.com/davep/pypath.el) to solve the problem for
me. It gives me two commands:

- `pypath`: which simply places the dotted path of the [current
  "defun"](http://doc.endlessparentheses.com/Fun/python-info-current-defun.html),
  within the context of being part of a Django system, into the clipboard
  buffer.
- `pypath-django-test`: which works similar to the above but places the
  whole Django testing command into the clipboard.

With the above, I can work on a test, hit the latter command above, flip to
my command line, paste and I'm running the test.

Of course, I'm sure there's plenty of other handy ways to do this. Doubtless
there's work environments where the test can be run right there, in the edit
buffer, without flipping away, and which takes into account the fact that
there's a pipenv-managed virtual environment involved, etc. If there is,
that's great, but I don't think it'd work with how I work.

And that's one of the things I really love about Emacs, and why it's still
my work environment after almost 25 years of on and off use: with very
little work on my part I can create a couple of commands that work exactly
how I need them to. While it's great to create [generally-useful code for
Emacs that lots of people benefit from](https://melpa.org/), sometimes the
real value is that [you can code up your own particular quirk and just get
on with stuff](https://blog.davep.org/delpa/).

To conclude: this post isn't to show off `pypath.el`; really this post is to
sing the praises of Emacs and why it still works so well for me after all
these years.

[//]: # (2019-10-19-pypath-el.md ends here)
