---
layout: post
title: dnote.el - A wrapper for the dnote CLI
category: Emacs
tags: Emacs, Lisp, Emacs Lisp
date: 2020-01-19 16:35:00+0000
---

Late on last year I stumbled on an article about
[dnote](https://www.getdnote.com/). Annoyingly, I can't recall now where I
saw it, but I made a reminder to look at it over my Christmas break.

Dnote looked like a tool that would fill a hole I had in how I work. When it
comes to making notes about things, and keeping things for future reference,
I use a few tools, each one being just right (for me) for the job in
question. I use [Evernote](https://evernote.com/) to track documents and
other household type things. I use [Keep](https://www.google.com/keep/) to
make notes about stuff I need to remember short-term (say, the size of a
space in my bedroom that I want furniture to go in) and also to record notes
while in meetings at work. I use [Journey](https://journey.cloud/) to keep a
journal about... anything, really. Finally, [I use
Pinboard](https://pinboard.in/u:davep) to keep hold of URLs I might want to
go back to (I also use it to create a to-read list).

Amongst all of this, however, I felt I was missing something for keeping
track of things that don't really fall into any of the categories above.
Mostly this would be work-based or hacking-based things that are short and
sweet but I don't always use enough to easily remember. I wanted just the
right tool that would let me ferret away useful one-liners, remind myself of
obscure switches that get used once or twice a year, etc.

After reading up on dnote it seemed pretty clear that this was just such a
tool.

After getting back to the office at the start of this month I decided to
make use of it and see how it went. My idea was simple: I'd record any "TIL"
stuff that I might want to remember in the future, as well as recording
things I need now and again but can't always remember.

So far it's working quite well. I like that it has a simple CLI. I like that
it's got a backend that you can use to sync between different machines. I
like that it's got a web interface that's mobile-friendly. I like that [it's
Free Software](https://github.com/dnote/dnote) and so you can host your own
server if you wish.

I found I liked it enough that, of course, I felt the need to start [a
simple Emacs wrapper for the CLI](https://github.com/davep/dnote.el).

At the moment dnote.el is designed to be a simple capture system. There are
commands for capturing a one-liner (entered in the Emacs mini-buffer), for
capturing the content of the current buffer, and for capturing
freshly-entered multi-line text, entered in a buffer that uses
`markdown-mode`. There's also a command for syncing notes if you have
configured dnote to talk to a backend.

What I don't have right now is the ability to navigate and view notes. So
far I've not really felt the need for that because the CLI approach works so
well. Longer-term though I can see my tweaking this and adding in commands
for searching, viewing, editing and deleting notes.

But, for now, if you've not had a look at dnote, I'd highly recommend having
a play and seeing if it makes sense for you. And, if it does, and you're an
Emacs user, perhaps dnote.el will be useful too?

[//]: # (2020-01-19-dnote-el.md ends here)
