---
layout: post
title: I'm back!
category: Meta
tags: news, blogging
date: 2022-05-20 12:44:00+0100
---

I'm back! Almost. More or less. In more ways than one. First off, as often
happens with blogs (we've all been there right?), I've been away from
blogging for a while. I've still been online, still been waffling away [on
twitter](https://twitter.com/davepdotorg), and have also stumbled into
[fosstodon as well](https://fosstodon.org/@davep). Doubtless plenty of other
things.

A big distraction for me, and one that is ongoing, is [mucking about on
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/daveporg). Since the last time I wrote
anything on the blog I got myself a VR setup, and then a PCVR setup, and
then finally fibre came to the village and I could stream, and... well, you
can see how that would go.

So, in short, that's where I've been and that's what's been keeping me busy.
Now that I'm paying some attention to blogging again (hopefully!) I imagine
some of that will end up on here -- I'd quite like to write about VR and
gaming amongst other things.

Now, I said I'd been away in more ways than one. Another way is explained by
[this post from back in 2019](/2019/10/18/time-to-move-on.html), where I
said I was going to head [over to Hashnode](https://blog.davep.dev/) and
carry on blogging there, obviously with an emphasis on development and just
development.

That kept me busy for a while and worked out well, mostly. But... well, see
above in part; I sort of ran out of steam when it came to purely-development
topics. But I still wanted to write, a bit, and wanted to write about more
than just development.

Also, something else was bothering me about being over on Hashnode. In the
past year, in terms of what they promote themselves, especially blogs and
posts they promote on their Twitter feed, they seem to have started to lean
really hard into [crypto and web3 and
NFTs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YQ_xWvX1n9g) and all that stuff. This
left me feeling like that was all a bit icky and it was time to put some
distance between that platform and myself.

So over the past couple of weeks, low-level and as a background task, I've
been back-porting posts from over there back into this blog. Starting with
this post all new blog content, be it about software development or anything
else, will be on here. If I'm really sensible and don't get distracted by
new shiny... this should be how it remains now.

Expect some changes over the next few weeks. While I'm aiming to stick with
the core tech (Github pages, Markdown and Jekyll, Emacs to edit, etc), I'd
like to tinker with the look and layout of the blog. The content will remain
the same though.

So, yeah, anyway, if you're reading this... hey, it's good to be back. :-)

[//]: # (2022-05-20-im-back.md ends here)
