---
layout: post
title: Fender Mustang Micro
category: Life
tags: music, guitar
date: 2023-11-05 20:28:00 +0100
cover: attachments/2023/10/20/IMG_3329.jpeg
---

The urge to go gadget crazy, when getting a new hobby, or reviving an old
one, is a real thing. Having recently bought [the new
guitar](/2023/10/20/a-new-guitar.html) with a view to trying to learn to
play properly, it's something I'm very mindful of and doing my best to
avoid. However, in the middle of the week I did crack and buy one little
extra thing:

![Fender Mustang Micro](/attachments/2023/11/05/IMG_3488.jpeg#centre)

As I said in the previous blog post about the guitar: I ended up getting
something that could be played acoustic without being annoying for
neighbours, which in turn meant I didn't need any sort of amp, or pedals,
etc. This has been working out just fine. But early last week, in an idle
moment, I was looking up what might be good options for a small amp for
practising should I want to and I stumbled on the [Mustang
Micro](https://www.fender.com/articles/parts-and-accessories/mustang-micro).

Reading up on it and checking out some reviews, it sounded *perfect* for my
setup. I enjoy living in a small space, so could do without a proper amp
kicking about, so something that just plugs right into the guitar sounded
ideal.

I added it to a list of things to keep in mind and then... a couple of days
later I was working from home which meant I'd be about to receive a delivery
if I was to place an order and... oops!

I've been using it every day since it turned up and I'm so damn impressed!
This thing might be small, but it's pretty mighty! For a complete notice
like me, to muck about, and fiddle and get some great sounds out of it, I
couldn't have asked for anything more.

![The Options](/attachments/2023/11/05/IMG_3489.jpeg#centre)

The range of amp styles is way more than I could possibly do justice right
now, but what's important for me is it's got versions that are nice and
clean, and versions that are dirty and distorted. The effects are pretty
much spot on too; there's everything I could ever possibly want there.

My only real complaint about it is that the UI itself -- small lights that
use colour to indicate their setting -- is terrible. I don't know how else
they *could* have done it, but I know this is bad. I am at least grateful
that it's standalone and doesn't require some app on a phone to control or
something like that.

I know it's going to take a while for me to get the most out of this, but
already it's giving me a bit more confidence to experiment and doodle away
in idle moments. Also, the USB connection means it can be plugged into my
Mac, presumably allowing me to record with GarageBand or similar software.
While I wouldn't use it to subject anyone to my terrible playing, that will
be something for me to explore in terms of keeping a record of my progress.

[//]: # (2023-11-05-fender-mustang-micro.md ends here)
