---
layout: post
title: Nick Harper at the Jazz Bar
category: Life
tags: Music, Gig, Fringe, Nick Harper
date: 2023-08-12 08:15:00 +0100
cover: attachments/2023/08/12/IMG_2689.jpeg
---

As mentioned [about a week back](/2023/08/07/off-to-see-nick-harper.html),
my first show booked for this year's Edinburgh Fringe was to see [Nick
Harper](https://harperspace.com/home). It's been a long time since I've seen
him; far too long. As best as I can tell the last gig I made it to was in
2009.

Fourteen years. Shit's changed in that time, for me, for the world. O_o

On first getting into town it was warm and crowded, with that fun "town is
doing festival shit" vibe that I like, so I went and grabbed an ice cream to
kill some time until the venue opened. I knew I was in the right spot when,
as I stood on Chambers Street, enjoying the cooldown, the man himself dashed
passed, guitar case in hand!

When I got into the venue I grabbed a drink and tried to find a seat; most
were taken; except for one right at the front and off to the side. So I
grabbed it. Moments later Nick himself came over to say hello to the folk
sat in this spot. We had a wee chat about how long it was since I'd last
seen him, nattered about general stuff, and he said very nice things about
my hat.

![Nick Harper](/attachments/2023/08/12/IMG_2682.jpeg#centre)

The gig itself was fantastic. While I love his recorded work anyway, Nick's
always been one of those artists who I enjoy most live. He's got this way of
singing and playing guitar that fills whatever time he's got to play; never
once have I ever found myself looking at my watch, wondering if it's near
the end; or if I have it's because I'm worried it'll be over soon.

![Nick Harper](/attachments/2023/08/12/IMG_2684.jpeg#centre)

A good number of the tracks he played I didn't recognise; at least two of
them I know are from a new album that's coming, and I have to admit that
when I do listen to his stuff it's the earlier works that tend to go into
heavy rotation (I think the last album of his I bought was *The Last
Guitar*). But I loved everything I got to hear. I'll be diving back into
[his catalogue](https://harperspace.com/shop) and also keeping an eye out
for the new release.

![Nick Harper](/attachments/2023/08/12/IMG_2689.jpeg#centre)

While there was only an hour for his slot, he did manage to get a couple of
old favourites of mine in; I was delighted when he launched into [By My
Rocket Comes Fire](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fNQAebSpqVw), did a
wonderful [She Rules My World](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IH6TqeeM5ZY),
and even squeezed in a quick [Galaxy
Song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Yz7mQ_i6pg).

![Nick Harper](/attachments/2023/08/12/IMG_2705.jpeg#centre)

All too quickly though, the hour was up. It was kind of fitting that many of
the songs he did have on the set list were all about time (on purpose, I'm
sure). I'm happy to say I got to say a quick thank you and goodbye and then
it was time for me to head out of town again.

![Nick Harper](/attachments/2023/08/12/IMG_2701.jpeg#centre)

Seeing Nick brought back a lot of good memories, and reminded me that I need
to catch up on his more recent works. While most of his stuff doesn't seem
to be on Apple Music (what can I say, I'm very online these days when it
comes to music), I'm glad to see [he's got a full
Bandcamp](https://nickharper.bandcamp.com/), so I'll be paying that a visit!

I hope he swings back this way some time soon, not during the Fringe, and
with a proper long set. It's been too long since I got to enjoy [him really
going for it and having a ton of
fun](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dTD03-3qgmg).

[//]: # (2023-08-12-nick-harper-at-the-jazz-bar.md ends here)
