---
layout: post
title: Apple Design
category: Tech
tags: Apple, iOS, iPhone, design
published: True
date: 2023-09-23 08:10:00+0100
---

As someone who started out in the Android ecosystem when it came to smart
phones -- starting out with a [HTC
Magic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTC_Magic) and going through a few
different phones before settling on Pixels (until I finally jumped ship to
iOS in 2020) -- I have to admit that there's always been something nice
about the design of iPhones. iOS, less so... My first exposure to iOS was
[back in 2015 when I got an iPod](/2015/06/23/and-now-for-some-ios.html),
and I wasn't terribly impressed. It looked okay, but it felt so far behind
Android in terms of functionality.

Much has changed and improved since then. These days, 3 years into being
totally consumed by the Apple ecosystem (one day I should write a post about
how comprehensively I've moved over), I'm won over and I like how iOS works
now.

Except this...

![Bad design](/attachments/2023/09/23/top-bad.jpeg#centre)

That thing where, when you're in one app, it will show the most useless link
"back" to another app, and in doing so bump the time up and out of the way a
little. Like, seriously, compare it to when the app link thing isn't there:

![Good design](/attachments/2023/09/23/top-good.jpeg#centre)

Once you see it, you can't unsee it.

![Toggle of the two images](/attachments/2023/09/23/bad-good-toggle.gif#centre)

After all this time you'd think they would have found a less janky way of
doing this; perhaps even simply removed it (I can't remember the last time I
needed or wanted the ability to go "back" an app like this, especially not
with the bottom-of-screen swipe gesture being a thing). If nothing else
you'd think that, by now, they'd have found a way of doing it that doesn't
look so terrible.

The *"eh, let's just shove it here"* approach that seems to be on display
here almost reminds me of [the "time wiggle" that used to mildly annoy me
back on my iMac](/2015/10/07/imac-time-wiggle.html).

[//]: # (2023-09-23-apple-design.md ends here)
