---
layout: post
title: Website: Miscellaneous Stuff moved
category: Coding
tags: html, web
date: 2023-08-14 22:04:00 +0100
---

This evening I've spent more time working on [the planned complete remake of
my personal website](/2023/08/11/the-reboot-begins.html), in this case
"porting" over many of the files that made up the old "miscellaneous stuff"
section of the site. If I'm honest, most if not all of the things in there
are no longer relevant (like: who really needs a shell script to make
`gnuplot` plots from files pulled off a 1990s-era Garmin handheld GPS
unit?), but I thought I'd keep them kicking around "just in case".

One wee section I wasn't going to get rid of though was my scans of three
pages from a UK magazine called *Personal Computer News*. These contain
[Grid Bike](https://www.davep.org/misc/grid-bike/); a game I wrote for the
VIC-20, all in BASIC, and got published. For my efforts I got a *huge*
cheque for Â£40! If that doesn't seem like much to you, trust me, to 1983 me
this was *huge*.

I bought a 16k RAM pack with the money.

Funnily enough, while trying to improve some of the links in the text, I
decided to see if there was now an archive online somewhere and, sure
enough, there is: [in the obvious
place](https://archive.org/details/PersonalComputerNews/PersonalComputerNews001-18Mar1983/).
This means that my web site isn't the only copy of my program on the net. If
you go to the [December 21st 1983
edition](https://archive.org/details/PersonalComputerNews/PersonalComputerNews041-21Dec1983/page/n9/mode/2up)
and turn to around page 84, there I am!

![The cover of PCN](/attachments/2023/08/14/PCN-cover.png#centre)

At this point I'm almost tempted to try and get an emulator up and running
and get the code going again. How much fun would it be to add a video to [my
YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@DavePearson), of my playing one of
the very first games I wrote?

[//]: # (2023-08-14-website-misc-stuff-moved.md ends here)
