---
layout: post
title: New desk
category: Life
tags: Life, desk
date: 2023-07-08 17:50:00 +0100
cover: attachments/2023/07/08/new-desk.jpeg
---

I moved into my current place back in August 2019, bringing with me a fairly
small desk. Originally, many years back, I'd had a pretty big office with
*lots* of office space but, upon moving up to Scotland back in 2016, I
needed to go with something a lot smaller.

Which was perfectly fine. Me and that desk wrote a lot of code. Me and that
desk [transitioned from one job to
another](/2017/12/12/on_to_something_new.html), and then
[another](/2022/10/05/on-to-something-new-redux.html). Me and that desk made
it through the pandemic.

It's been a good desk.

But it was small. I'm in a place where I could spread out a fair bit again,
but I also kept putting it off and putting it off.

Earlier this year I decided that it was high time I actually upgraded; I
also promised the desk to someone else who I know will get a *lot* of good
use out of it; so finally earlier this week I put in the order for something
bigger and fancier.

Yesterday, with the help of a very good friend (thanks MariÃ«lle!), I got the
desk built and roughly in place, and then today I've been putting the
desktop back together and adding extra bits.

![My new desk](/attachments/2023/07/08/new-desk.jpeg#centre)

It's so nice to have more space to spread out, it's also nice to have a
black desk again! (the last one was white because... reasons) But what's
*really* exciting is that it transforms into a standing desk at the touch of
a button.

I've been trying it in the standing configuration today and, while I doubt I
could do a whole day of coding with it like that, I'm already really liking
it as a way of breaking up the time at the keyboard. On the days I work from
home, or the days of my own where I get sucked into a personal project, I
can absolutely see me swapping between the two states.

All that's left now is to get used to it. The screens are ever so slightly
further away, the height is ever so slightly different (although I can
adjust it, of course, but what I've done is adjust the sitting position to a
nicer on and that's going to take some getting used to), my iPad and Stream
Desk are in just a slightly different location, etc, etc... So I'm sure
there'll be a few days of sitting here and making small tweaks to the spot
where things live.

Before I know it I'll be used to it. It'll be "my spot".

[//]: # (2023-07-08-new-desk.md ends here)
