---
layout: post
title: Tinboard v0.3.0
category: Coding
tags: Python, terminal, textual
date: 2023-12-23 08:49:00 +0000
cover: attachments/2023/12/19/tinboard.png
---

It looks like I'm in a wee period of small incremental changes and release
of [Tinboard](/2023/12/19/tinboard.html). This morning I've release v0.3.0,
which has a couple of small but useful changes.

The first is more of a cosmetic thing. The [`Footer` widget in
Textual](https://textual.textualize.io/widgets/footer/) is handy for showing
the current keyboard bindings in a given context, but it can get massively
cluttered very quickly (we do have plans to revisit this); in Tinboard this
clutter creep was turning into a thing.

So I've removed almost every binding from being displayed in the `Footer`,
and have placed an emphasis on the user pressing <kbd>F1</kbd> to get
context-sensitive help, and have also left the most useful bindings in the
footer with very minimal descriptions.

Given that this is a keyboard-first application, and I've tried to make the
bindings easy to remember, I think it's going to make more sense to do it
like this, and will make for a tidier UI too.

There is one disadvantage here of course: by removing the display of
bindings from the footer, the mouse-heavy user becomes disadvantaged; if a
particular binding doesn't have a UI feature that favours the mouse to cover
it too there's no way to initiate that action with the mouse. I'm going to
think on this a little. Again, Tinboard is designed for *me* first and
foremost, and my preference is to be keyboard-first when using the
application; but finding a good compromise would be advantageous when it
comes to advising people asking about Textual application design.

The second change is a simple but useful one. I've added a toggle of the
sort order of the tags menu in the left-hand column (bound to
<kbd>F4</kbd>). Right now it simply toggles between alphabetical order, or
bookmark count order (most to least). At some point I might make it more of
a cycle than a toggle, but this serves my purposes for now.

Tinboard can be installed with `pip` or (ideally) `pipx` [from
PyPi](https://pypi.org/project/tinboard/). The [source is available on
GitHub](https://github.com/davep/tinboard).

[//]: # (2023-12-23-tinboard-0-3-0.md ends here)
