---
layout: post
title: When it doesn't just work
category: Tech
tags: Apple, watch
date: 2023-12-08 10:32:00 +0100
cover: attachments/2023/12/08/watch-face.png
---

My journey into the Apple ecosystem has been gradual but all-consuming. I've
gone from, [around a 8 years
ago](/2015/06/27/my-first-couple-of-weeks-with-an-imac.html), being
unconvinced about how good the whole Apple world is, to pretty much having
all the hardware they make available, in some form, that I have an actual
use for[^1].

One of the devices I was late to, but won over by, after moving away from
Android to iPhone, was the Apple Watch. These days I have two: the original
SE, and also a Series 8. Generally I've marvelled at just how seamless the
experience is. I swap watches: the connection to my phone "just works" and
it figures all that out. Stuff syncs. Stuff stays in sync.

I lean heavily on the watch. The Series 8 is my daily driver, and the SE
acts as my nighttime tracking device while the 8 charges and I sleep.

I record walks. I record runs. I record lots of heart rate data. I pay for
things, pretty much everything, with it. I... take it for granted really.

![My main watch face](/attachments/2023/12/08/watch-face.png#centre)

Yesterday though, something odd started to happen. I noticed that some
things didn't seem to be syncing from my watch to the phone. Health-related
things weren't turning up. A recorded workout didn't show. The control of
all things audio seemed to decouple and the watch kept taking over use of my
AirPods from the phone in an annoying way I'd never experienced before.
Things like that.

I tried a reboot of the watch. Stuff turned up.

It happened again. I tried a reboot of the phone. Stuff turned up.

It happened again.

I then rebooted watch and phone, stuff seemed fine, and I didn't think much
more about it.

Then this morning I swapped from the SE back to the Series 8 as I sat down
for breakfast, my usual routine, and the syncing was failing *again*.

This, for me, this is when Apple stuff gets really frustrating. There's no
easy or obvious way to diagnose what's going on. Like: I could not sync some
health data from the watch to the phone, but I *could* use "Find My" to ping
the watch (presumably a difference in communication route, BT vs Wi-Fi
perhaps). There's no obvious error dialog. There's no obvious log to look
at. There's no "your BT is borked" alert or something.

Searching online the advice seemed to be the nuclear option: unpair the
watch, reset it, start again. So I've done that this morning and it's been
quite the pain. Getting it set up again was straightforward enough, but
having to go through the whole thing of dismissing all the *"here's some
tips on how to use this watch you've had for a year and used every day"*
cards was annoying, also having to set up my payment cards again was
annoying. Also, and this is on me for not backing them up recently, trying
to recreate my watch faces from memory and remembering which ones they were
based on was also annoying.

Apple are actually so good at a lot of this seamless shit; but damn do I
wish they'd also be good at making a tool that lets you easily and smoothly
diagnose some issues. I would imagine sync issues between watch and phone
are common enough that a wee tool where you run through diagnostics, and
where there's a Q&A to help narrow down the issue, would be a great
experience.

Anyway... it seems to be up and running again, so hopefully that's that
issue solved. I tried a couple of things that would need to sync from the
watch to the phone and they showed up instantly; actually faster than I've
been used to for quite a while.

Fingers crossed...

[^1]: During a conversation about this at work the other week, I think I
    figured out that the only Apple product category in which I don't own an
    example of the hardware is displays[^2]. :-/
[^2]: When the VisionPro comes out I'll be able to say there's two.

[//]: # (2023-12-08-when-it-does-not-just-work.md ends here)
