---
layout: post
title: Website: Norton Guide information moved
category: Coding
tags: html, web
date: 2023-08-13 10:02:00 +0100
---

This morning I've spent a wee bit of time tinkering with the configuration
of [the planned complete remake of my personal
website](/2023/08/11/the-reboot-begins.html). As part of this I made an
effort to "port" over a section of the site. The choice for the first
section to move was easy enough: [Norton
Guides](https://www.davep.org/norton-guides/).

Of all the parts of my old site, this is probably the most useful in terms
of *"contains information that isn't generally available out there on the
web elsewhere and some folk might find it useful"*. I mean, at some point in
the past, someone edited the Wikipedia page for Norton Guides and linked to
mine as a source.

So getting that one back up and running as soon as possible made sense.

I've not added *every* bit of Norton Guide code to the main page, instead
just pulling over and tidying up what was there before. On the other hand,
just hacking on Markdown makes it all so much easier so I may expand on it a
bit.

The really important part was moving over [the file format
details](https://www.davep.org/norton-guides/file-format/). This, I feel, is
the information that people will be looking for, if anyone is ever looking.

So, proper start made; there's content beyond the landing page. There's
still a lot to weed out and move over, and I think there's a lot of tweaking
and the like with the configuration to do too. But the ball is rolling now.
Ever time I get a spare hour and the desire to sit at my desk I can pick a
section, look it over, decide if it deserves to come over, and act on that.

Heck, at this rate I might even end up with an actively-maintained website
again!

[//]: # (2023-08-13-website-norton-guide-information-moved.md ends here)
