---
layout: post
title: Tinboard
category: Coding
tags: Python, terminal, textual
date: 2023-12-19 09:47:00 +0000
cover:
---

Over the past few weeks I've been working on a new pet project, in part done
as a [Textual](https://textual.textualize.io/) "dogfooding" project, but
also because this is a tool I've been wanting for a while now: a
terminal-based client for the [Pinboard bookmarking
service](https://pinboard.in/).

The dogfooding side of the development has been helping, uncovering a couple
of fun bugs in Textual; plus the act of building this has let me try out a
few of the newer features we've recently added to the framework.

What's *really* important though is this is a tool I actually **wanted**,
and I'm using pretty often. I've written a *lot* of Textual-based
applications over the past year, most small examples, [some quite a bit
bigger](https://github.com/Textualize/frogmouth), but none them really form
part of my daily workflow. This changes with Tinboard.

![Tinboard in action](/attachments/2023/12/19/tinboard.png#centre)

Tinboard is designed as a fully-featured client, allowing for the creation
of new Bookmarks, complete with tag suggestion support:

![Adding a new bookmark](/attachments/2023/12/19/new-bookmark.png#centre)

Not only are tag suggestions pulled from Pinboard, but entry of tags can
auto-complete, taking completions from both the suggested tags and also tags
used amongst your own bookmarks:

![Auto-complete of tags](/attachments/2023/12/19/tag-suggest.gif#centre)

That feature was really easy to add thanks to [the `Suggester`
API](https://textual.textualize.io/api/suggester/).

Thanks to the
[recently-added](https://textual.textualize.io/blog/2023/09/21/textual-0380-adds-a-syntax-aware-textarea/)
`TextArea` widget the add/edit dialog allows for proper full editing of the
extended text description of the bookmark too:

![Editing a bookmark](/attachments/2023/12/19/edit.png#centre)

One caveat here is a lack of word-wrapping; but this will be arriving in an
update to Textual early in the new year.

As well as all the usual add/edit/delete facilities, Tinboard is also
designed to make it pretty easy to find bookmarks too. There are filtering
options for seeing all read/unread, public/private and tagged/untagged
bookmarks; this makes bookmark management really easy for me because I can
filter for all the untagged and private bookmarks, which are likely the ones
that need editing and expanding on, and tidy up my bookmark library.

There is also, of course, full text search too.

![Text search entry](/attachments/2023/12/19/search-entry.png#centre)

When a filter or search is in operation, the related tags and the like react
too:

![A search result being shown](/attachments/2023/12/19/search-result.png#centre)

Another thing I've made a point of doing in Tinboard is leaning pretty hard
on the [Command
Palette](https://textual.textualize.io/guide/command_palette/). No
functionality is *only* available by it (I've done my best to make sure that
keyboard is the primary input device here, with keyboard shortcuts for as
much as possible). Initially I approached this as a "for the sake of
completeness" feature, but already I'm finding that it's a pretty quick
method of pulling up a tag filter.

![The command palette in action](/attachments/2023/12/19/command-palette.png#centre)

To help make all the features as discoverable possible, I've also ensured
there's a pretty comprehensive help screen:

![Help](/attachments/2023/12/19/help.png#centre)

Anyway; that's v0.1.0 out in the wild. I'm pleased with out it's turned out
and there's a few more things I'd like to add. It's licensed GPL-3.0 and
available [via GitHub](https://github.com/davep/tinboard) and also [via
PyPi](https://pypi.org/project/tinboard/). If you have an environment that
has `pipx` installed you should be able to get up and going with:

```sh
$ pipx install tinboard
```

I hope this is useful to someone else. :-)

[//]: # (2023-12-19-tinboard.md ends here)
