---
layout: post
title: Documenting textual-fspicker (plus a TIL)
category: Coding
tags: Python, textual, documentation, GitHub, mkdocs, mkdocstrings, gh-pages
date: 2025-02-28 11:45:00 +0000
cover: attachments/2025/02/28/good.png
---

I've just made a wee update to
[`textual-fspicker`](https://github.com/davep/textual-fspicker), my dialog
library for [Textual](https://textual.textualize.io) which adds `FileOpen`,
`FileSave` and `SelectDirectory` dialogs. There's no substantial change to
the workings of the library itself, but I have added something it's been
lacking for a long time: documentation!

Well... that's not quite true, it's always had documentation. I'm an avid
writer of Python docstrings and I make a point of always writing them for
every class, function, method or global value as I write the code. As such
the low-level "API" documentation has always been sat there ready to be
published somehow, eventually.

Meanwhile the description for how to use the library was mostly a pointer to
some example code inside the README. Not ideal, and something I really
wanted to improve at some point.

Given I'm still on a bit of a coding spree in my spare time, I finally
decided to get round to using the amazing
[mkdocstrings](https://mkdocstrings.github.io), in conjunction with
[mkdocs](https://www.mkdocs.org), to [get some better documentation up an
running](https://blog.davep.org/textual-fspicker/).

The approach I decided to take with the documentation was to [have a page
that gave some general information on how to use the
library](https://blog.davep.org/textual-fspicker/using/) and then also
[generate low-level documentation for the all the useful content of the
library from the
docstrings](https://blog.davep.org/textual-fspicker/library-contents/base_dialog/).
While latter isn't really useful to anyone wanting to use the library in
their own applications, it could be useful to anyone wanting to understand
how it hangs together at a lower-level, perhaps because they want to
contribute to or extend the library in some way.

While writing some of the general guide took a bit of work, of course, the
work to get the documentation up and running and generating was simple
enough. The effort comes down to 3 rules in the
[`Makefile`](https://github.com/davep/textual-fspicker/blob/ad6818c96816f2f1ad7a39909d276271af3f760d/Makefile)
for the project:

```make
##############################################################################
# Documentation.
.PHONY: docs
docs:                    # Generate the system documentation
    $(mkdocs) build

.PHONY: rtfm
rtfm:                    # Locally read the library documentation
    $(mkdocs) serve

.PHONY: publishdocs
publishdocs: docs        # Set up the docs for publishing
    $(run) ghp-import --push site
```

The `rtfm` target is useful for locally-serving the documentation so I can
live preview as I write things and update the code. The `publishdocs` target
is used to create and push a `gh-pages` branch for the repository, resulting
in the documentation being hosted by GitHub.

## A wee problem

This is, however, where I ran into a wee problem. I noticed that the
locally-hosted version of the documentation looked great, but the version
hosted on GitHub Pages was... not so great. I was seeing a load of text
alignment issues, and also whole bits of text just not appearing at all.

Here's an example of what I was seeing locally:

![Good layout](/attachments/2025/02/28/good.png)

and here's what I was seeing being served up from GitHub Pages:

![Bad layout](/attachments/2025/02/28/bad.png)

As you can see, in the "bad" version the `func` label is missing from the
header, and the `Parameters` and `Returns` tables look quite messy.

I spent a little bit of time digging and, looking in Safari's console, I
then noticed that I was getting a 404 on a file called `_mkdocstrings.css`
in the `assets` folder. Problem found!

Only... was it though? If I looked in the `gh-pages` local branch the file
was there (and with fine permissions). If I looked in the remote branch, it
was there too. Thinking it could be some odd browser problem I even tried to
grab the file back from the command line and it came back 404 as well.

![Testing from the command line](/attachments/2025/02/28/http-grab.png)

At this point it was getting kind of late so I decided I must have screwed
up somehow but I should leave it for the evening and head to bed. Before
doing so though [I decided to drop a question into the mkdocstrings
discussions to see if anyone could see where I'd messed
up](https://github.com/mkdocstrings/mkdocstrings/discussions/742).

As it turns out, it looked like I hadn't messed up and the reply from the
[always super-helpful Timoth√©e](https://github.com/pawamoy) was, in effect,
*"yeah, that should work fine"*. At least I wasn't the only one confused.

Fast forward to this morning and, with breakfast and coffee inside me, I
decided to try and methodically get to the bottom of it. I [wrote up the
current state of
understanding](https://github.com/mkdocstrings/mkdocstrings/discussions/742#discussioncomment-12348912)
and looked at what might be the common cause. The thing that stood out to me
was that this was a file that started with an underscore, so I did a quick
search for *"github pages underscore"* and right away landed on [this
result](https://www.ianwootten.co.uk/2022/11/08/how-to-use-underscores-with-github-pages/).

Bingo!

That had to be it!

A little bit of testing later and sure enough, the documentation hosted on
GitHub Pages looked exactly like the locally-hosted version.

So, TIL: by default sites hosted by GitHub Pages will pretend that any asset
that starts with an underscore doesn't exist, unless you have a `.nojekyll`
in the root of the repository, on the `gh-pages` branch (or whatever branch
you decide to serve from).

To make this all work I added `.nojekyll` to
[`docs/source`](https://github.com/davep/textual-fspicker/tree/ad6818c96816f2f1ad7a39909d276271af3f760d/docs/source)
and added this to `mkdocs.yml`:

```yaml
exclude_docs: |
  !.nojekyll
```

All done!

And now I've worked out a simple workflow for using `mkdocs`/`mkdocstrings`
for my own Python projects, in conjunction with GitHub Pages, I guess I'll
start to sprinkle it over other projects too.

[//]: # (2025-02-28-documenting-fspicker.md ends here)
