---
layout: post
title: "Swift TIL 8"
categories: []
tags: [ "swift", "apple", "TIL" ]
date: 2020-06-29 22:48:00+0100
---

Although I read up on it a few days back, it was only this evening that I
fired up Emacs (well of course I'm testing Swift with Emacs, what did you
think I'd do?!?) and dabbled with some code to really get a feel for how
casting works in Swift.

Swift seems to be one of those languages that does it with a keyword rather
than a non-keyword approach. The two main keywords being `as?` and `as!`. I
kind of like how there's a polite version and a bossy version. Having the
two makes a lot of sense from what I read too.

To try and illustrate my understanding so far (and do keep in mind I'm not
writing this with the express purpose of explaining it to anyone else -- I'm
writing this to try and retain it all in my head by working through it),
here's a bit of utterly pointless and highly-contrived code that defines
three classes in a fairly ordinary hierarchy:

```swift
class Animal {}

class Dog : Animal {}

class Cat : Animal {
    func beAdorable() {
        print( "Purrrrrr!" )
    }
}
```

So, so far, so good: we have animals, we have dogs which are a kind of
animal, and we have cats, which are also a kind of animal, but they have the
special ability of actually being adorable. 😼

Now, for the purposes of just testing all of this out, here's a horrible
function that makes little sense other than for testing:

```swift
func adore( _ a : Animal ) {
    ( a as! Cat ).beAdorable()
}
```

Given an animal, it forces it to be a cat (by casting it with `as!`), and
then asks it to be adorable (because, of course, cats always do as they're
asked).

So, if we then had:

```swift
adore( Cat() )
```

we'd get what we expect when run:

```
Purrrrrr!
```

So far so good. But what about:

```swift
adore( Dog() )
```

Yeah, that's not so good:

```sh
~/d/p/s/casting$ swift run
[3/3] Linking casting
Could not cast value of type 'casting.Dog' (0x10a1f8830) to 'casting.Cat' (0x10a1f88c0).
fish: 'swift run' terminated by signal SIGABRT (Abort)
```

One way around this would be to use `as?`, which has the effect of casting
the result to an
[`Optional`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/optional). This
means I can re-write the `adore` function like this:

```swift
func adore( _ a : Animal ) {
    ( a as? Cat )?.beAdorable()
}
```

Now, if `a` can be cast to a `Cat`, you get an optional that wraps the
`Cat`, otherwise you get an optional that wraps `nil` (hence the second `?`
before attempting to call the `beAdorable` member function).

So now, if I run the problematic dog call above again:

```sh
~/d/p/s/casting$ swift run
[3/3] Linking casting
```

In other words, no output at all. Which is the idea here.

I think I like this, I think it makes sense, and I think I can see why both
`as!` and `as?` exist. The latter also means, of course, that you can do
something like:

```swift
func adore( _ a : Animal ) {
    let cat = a as? Cat
    if cat != nil {
        cat!.beAdorable()
    } else {
        print( "That totally wasn't a cat" )
    }
}
```

which, in the messy dog call again, now results in:

```sh
~/d/p/s/casting$ swift run
[3/3] Linking casting
That totally wasn't a cat
```

Or, of course, the same effect could be had with:

```swift
func adore( _ a : Animal ) {
    if a is Cat {
        ( a as! Cat ).beAdorable()
    } else {
        print( "That totally wasn't a cat" )
    }
}
```

It should be stressed, of course, that the example code is terrible design,
so given the above I'd ensure I never end up in this sort of situation in
the first place. But for the purposes of writing and compiling and running
code and seeing what the different situations result in, it helped.

[//]: # (2020-06-29-swift-til-8.md ends here)
