---
layout: post
title: "Swift TIL 12"
categories: []
tags: [ "swift", "apple", "TIL" ]
date: 2020-07-18 10:16:00+0100
---

First a small aside: To be honest, the `T` part of `TIL` is getting to be
less and less true with this series of posts, but the posts themselves serve
a useful purpose for me. As I've been reading the book I'm working through,
I've also been making notes on my iPad in the [Apple Notes
application](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/notes/id1110145109). I'm not
really convinced that that's the best final location for such notes, so
early on I made an extra step in keeping track of what I'm doing and trying
to reinforce what I'm learning: transfer the notes into
[Org-Mode](https://orgmode.org/) documents in my notebook repository.

This repository contains lots of Org-Mode files, broken down into subject
directories, that hang on to longer-form information I want to keep track of
regarding software development and general operating system use. I'm sure
you know the sort of thing, the things where you know you know them but you
can't always retain all the detail -- so having the detail where you know
you'll find it is useful.

So I've made that part of the process: read book, find thing worth noting,
note in Apple Notes, a wee while later re-read and test out by writing
sample code and transfer to the Org-Mode notebook. During that latter step I
sometimes also write up something that I really liked or found interesting
here to further reinforce the learning process.

The "TIL" I wanted to note quickly today is how happy I was to see that
Swift has something that's a reasonably recent addition to Emacs Lisp:
conditional binding. Skipping off into Emacs Lisp for a moment, it would be
very common for me to find myself writing something like this (this actually
happens in all languages really):

```elisp
(let ((foo (get-something-from-elsewhere)))
  (when foo
    (do-something-with foo)))
```

Quite simply: I'd get a value from elsewhere, that value could possibly be
`nil` to mark that there was a failure to get a value, but that failure
wasn't in any way fatal or even a problem worthy of note: I just needed to
skip along. But that binding followed by the test was always a little
jarring. And then, [back in
25.1](https://endlessparentheses.com/new-in-emacs-25-1-more-flow-control-macros.html),
`if-let` and `when-let` got added (of course, this being Lisp, [it would
have been very simple to add them
anyway](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/elisp/Macros.html#Macros)),
and it was easier to [write the code so it looked just a little
nicer](https://github.com/davep/pinboard.el/blob/d426f9d2ebec5f907c8a89d6b38ccbcb13750d4f/pinboard.el#L308):

```elisp
(when-let ((foo (get-something-from-elsewhere)))
  (do-something-with foo))
```

It's a small difference, but I find it a pleasing one.

So of course I was pleased to find that Swift has something similar with
`if` and
[`Optional`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/optional)
values, where you can write something like:

```swift
if let foo = getSomethingFromElsewhere() {
    // Do something with foo but only if it's not nil
}
```

Which means you can do things like this (not that I'd really do things like
this, but it was a handy test on the command line):

```swift
func oddRand() -> Int? {

    let n = Int.random( in: 0...99 )

    if n % 2 == 0 {
        return nil
    }

    return n
}

for _ in 0...10 {
    if let n = oddRand() {
        print( n )
    } else {
        print( "Nope" )
    }
}
```

As usual... of course that's horrible code, it was just thrown together to
test/experience the language feature on the command line.

I like it though. I figure [all the best languages have conditional
binding](https://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/when-let). ;-)

[//]: # (2020-07-18-swift-til-12.md ends here)
