---
layout: post
title: "Swift TIL 11"
categories: []
tags: [ "swift", "apple", "TIL" ]
date: 2020-07-11 21:34:00+0100
---

This is one of those things, especially this little play to help appreciate
the feature, that I'm filing under "kinda cool, but I am *never* doing this
in production".

So Swift has operator overriding, and then some. Moreover, operators are, in
effect, functions, just with some extra syntax support. None of this is new
to me, I've worked in and with other languages that have this ability,
expect... I don't ever recall working in a language that, at the time I did,
supported creating brand new operators (okay, fine, Lisp is a bit of an
outlier here and there's all sorts of fun conversations to be had there --
but still, let's stick with more "conventional" syntax here). Support always
seemed to be about extending the ability of an existing operator.

Swift though... yeah, you get to pick from a huge character space when it
comes to creating operators.

Which got me thinking... How cool would it be to have a prefix operator that
turns a floating point number into a currency-friendly number (you know, the
sort of number type that can be used for currency-friendly calculations).

Swift has the
[`decimal`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/decimal)
type which, at first glance anyway, looks to be a sensible candidate; even
if it isn't (and, really, how to actually sensibly handle currency is a
whole series of blog posts in their own right, that I have no wish to write
myself because such things are a previous working life for me, and other
people have doubtless done a very comprehensive job elsewhere over the
years) it will serve as a good stand-in for the little bit of horror I'm
going to write next.

So... Let's say we want to use `£` as a prefix operator to say "see this
number? make it a `decimal`", we could do something as simple as this:

```swift
import Foundation

prefix operator £
prefix func £( n : Decimal ) -> Decimal { n }

print( £1.20 + £0.75 + £0.01 )
```

Horrifically and delightfully, it works:

```shell
$ swift run
[3/3] Linking opover
1.96
```

I know, I know, I feel bad for even trying. But it's also kinda cool that
the language has this.

It gets better though...

While reading up on what characters can and can't be used as operators, one
thing that stood out was the fact that, more or less, any character that
isn't a valid identifier can be used as an operator. So... hang on, we can
use "emoji" as identifiers?

Like this?

```swift
import Foundation

prefix operator £
prefix func £( n : Decimal ) -> Decimal { n }

let 💵 = £1.20 + £0.75 + £0.01

print( 💵 )
```

Why yes. Yes we can. 😈

[//]: # (2020-07-11-swift-til-11.md ends here)
