---
layout: post
title: Catching up
categories: []
tags: [ "Mac", "Apple" ]
date: 2023-07-02 08:00:00 +0100
---

So... erm... yeah... I did it again. I looked away for a moment and somehow
[almost 7 months passed without a post](/2022/12/16/oidia.html)! It's so
easily done too isn't it? While, [when I revived this blog last
year](/2022/05/20/im-back.html), I didn't make a point of intending to write
lots and often, I had hope that I'd manage something at least once a week;
perhaps at least once a month.

Ahh well.

There's been two main reasons why it's been quiet around here. The first is
that [my (now not so) new job](/2022/10/05/on-to-something-new-redux.html)
keeps me busy (in a good way). It involves a reasonable amount of trekking
into town and back (which I don't mind on the whole), and once I'm home in
the evening I'm generally (but not always) done with the keyboard and desk.

The second reason, which is probably the dafter one, is that a bit earlier
this year I finally upgraded my desktop setup from the 2019 Intel MacBook
Pro I was using to a recently-released M2Pro Mac Mini (and *what* an
upgrade!). How this plays into blogging being even more quiet is... I needed
to set up jekyll again, and I'd forgotten how I got it running in the first
place, so I kept putting off getting it going, and...

Well, this morning, I sat down with coffee, grepped the `history` on my
previous machine, and got it running in like 5 minutes (of course).

So, here I am, back adding another blog post. I'm writing this as much to
test that the setup works as anything else.

But also, this time, I'm going to try and make a promise to myself: I'm
going to try and write more. I can and should write about anything. I can
and should write short things as well as long things. I can and should
remember that it's not about writing things that are going to be super
important or anything like that, it's about just getting stuff down and
creating and recording.

Note of course I said "try" and make a promise.

We'll see. ;-)
