---
layout: post
title: BlogMore v1.11.0
category: Coding
tags: AI, BlogMore, Coding, Copilot, LLM, Python
date: 2026-03-11 20:39:00 +0000
---

I was going to call this one "Yet more BlogMore" but I think, even after two
posts with that naming scheme, the "...more BlogMore" thing has had its day.
But here I am: another day, another wee change to the blogging engine I'm
building as an experiment with developing using AI.

Just a couple of simple changes in this release. The first comes from the
fact that I was updating my blog to include more of the "socials" icons (the
ones you'll see towards the bottom of the sidebar if you're on a wide enough
display, or in the collapsible header if not) and when I deployed some were
missing. Which, after a moment of puzzling, made sense.

See: I made a change a while back such that [I stopped using the full
FontAwesome stylesheet, and instead only used a specially-built
subset](https://github.com/davep/blogmore/pull/155). This is handy in that
it really reduces how much data goes into a page. But the downside, of
course, is the browser will cache this file; so if you then add more
"brands" to the list their icons will be missing until the cached version of
the old generation of the CSS file goes stale.

So in this release [I've added a generation-based cache
buster](https://github.com/davep/blogmore/pull/253); it's just the simple
`?v=thing` approach but it should work fine for what I need here.

The other change is [I've added the generated FontAwesome CSS file to the
list of files that get optionally minified at generation
time](https://github.com/davep/blogmore/pull/252). While it's not a massive
change in terms of the total amount of data that gets pulled down, every
little helps.

I feel like, at this point, I've managed to add everything I could possibly
want from this little static site generator; yet somehow each day I have a
new idea and off I go again.

It'll be finished soon. I'm sure.

[//]: # (2026-03-11-blogmore-1-11-0.md ends here)
