---
title: "Wasat v0.4.0"
date: "2026-07-12 10:12:59+0100"
category: Python
tags: [Coding, "Gemini Protocol", PyPI, Python, smolweb, wasat]
---

By this point today I was hoping to have released a new version of
[Rogallo](/tag/rogallo/), complete with client certificate support. It is
more or less all there and ready to go, but I ran into a small problem,
something which confused me.

You see, according to [the documentation for the Gemini
Protocol](https://geminiprotocol.net/docs/protocol-specification.gmi), when
there's a request by a capsule for a client certificate, that certificate
should be scoped to the host, port *and path and all paths below it*. So
that means that if `example.com/foo` causes a certificate to be requested,
it's good for `example.com/foo` and `example.com/foo/bar`, but it isn't
valid for `example.com/other`.

Makes sense.

The problem I ran into pretty quickly, with my implementation of this in
Wasat and Rogallo, was this: I hit a site (a microblogging site of sorts)
that had a joining page at `example.com/join`. Once you joined up and set
your user name, you'd normally land at `example.com/me`. They're sibling
paths and so should *not* use the same certificate. However, this was done
via redirection, so I did some work to "clone" a certificate when there's a
redirection.

But then it got more complicated. The site also lets you follow other
people. This means that if you visit `example.com/other-user` you should
also still have the client certificate in place so the capsule knows who you
are (because client certificates are also, in effect, session cookies, as I
understand it), so you can perform the follow. Again, this is a sibling
path, and there's no redirection, so the certificate is no good because, at
this point, it's scoped to `example.com/join` and `example.com/me`.

Meanwhile: testing this with [Lagrange](https://gmi.skyjake.fi/lagrange/),
it had no such problem whatsoever. How was it getting around this issue? Was
I doing something wrong? Was I misreading the specification for the
protocol? Was Lagrange being a bit more relaxed about its certificate scope?

After doing some digging, it would seem that it's the latter. It looks like
it, and perhaps other clients, take a pragmatic approach to certificate
scopes and generally scope them to the host and port alone, ignoring the
path (in the case of Lagrange it seems to sort of actually divorce the
certificates from the URIs anyway, treating certificates more as identities
you can associate with any capsule, etc).

Given this, at least for now, I'm going to take that approach. Any time a
certificate needs to be generated in Rogallo, I'm going to give the user the
option (on by default) to scope the certificate to the whole host/port
combination. Later on I might add the ability to fully manage certificates
(right now that can be done by editing the certificates file in the data
directory, but a proper UI for it would be nice).

Which brings me to this release of Wasat.
[v0.4.0](https://wasat.davep.dev/changelog/#v040) adds some extra
functionality to
[`GeminiURI`](https://wasat.davep.dev/library/uri/#wasat.uri.GeminiURI) that
allows changing and removing individual parts of the URI. There's a new
[`replace`
method](https://wasat.davep.dev/library/uri/#wasat.uri.GeminiURI.replace)
that can be used to create a clone of a URI with various parts changed.
Also, if you just want to change one specific part or simply prefer method
chaining approaches, I've also added more `with_` methods similar to the
pre-existing [`with_query`
method](https://wasat.davep.dev/library/uri/#wasat.uri.GeminiURI.with_query),
so now there's also
[`with_host`](https://wasat.davep.dev/library/uri/#wasat.uri.GeminiURI.with_host),
[`with_port`](https://wasat.davep.dev/library/uri/#wasat.uri.GeminiURI.with_port)
and
[`with_path`](https://wasat.davep.dev/library/uri/#wasat.uri.GeminiURI.with_path).

With these in place I can go back to Rogallo and carry on with the last bits
of work I want to do on client certificate support, with Wasat making it
easy for me to clone up and chop and change URIs to suit the scoping
requirements.

[//]: # (2026-07-12-wasat-v0-4-0.md ends here)
