---
title: BlogMore v2.19.0
date: 2026-05-04 09:07:26+0100
category: Coding
tags: BlogMore, Coding, PyPI, Python
---

While I'm messing around in the background of
[BlogMore](https://blogmore.davep.dev/), looking at the state of the code
and looking for opportunities to clean it up, either [by
hand](/2026/05/02/me-vs-claude.html), or by [pitting agent against
agent](/2026/04/30/a-different-approach.html), I've also been doing the odd
little fix here and there.

I've just released [BlogMore
v2.19.0](https://blogmore.davep.dev/changelog/#v2190), which has a couple of
fixes, and also a small improvement.

The first fix is something I noticed late on last week when I was sharing
one of the archive pages from my blog with someone. I noticed that the
preview that appeared didn't have the default blog image, nor did it have
any sort of description. This *should* happen in that, on any page that
isn't a post with a specific cover image or description, it should fall back
to the blog's defaults. Turns out this logic was missing from things like
the date-based archives, the category and tag archives, and a number of
other parts of the generated output.

That's [now fixed](https://github.com/davep/blogmore/pull/432).

The second fix is to the [recently-added](/2026/04/25/blogmore-v2-16-0.html)
backlinks feature. While reviewing the effect of something else I was
working on, I specifically noticed that [this
post](/2016/11/15/seen_by_davep_(the_return).html) didn't have a backlink
section at the bottom, despite the fact that it was linked to from [this
post](/2017/03/08/hello_google_pixel.html). The cause seemed pretty clear:
the fact that I had parentheses in the URL. My guess was that the regex that
the link-finding code uses wasn't taking this sort of thing into account;
[my guess was right](https://github.com/davep/blogmore/pull/445/changes).

The final change in this release is that the per-build cache-busting feature
has been extended to *all* the JavaScript files that are generated when
building the site. Before it was mostly only applied to the main stylesheets
and a couple of long-standing bits of JavaScript. Now it's added to the code
that's used for [search](/search/), the code-block support code, the
[graph](/graph/), etc. This means that if there are any changes in those
files between builds and deployments of a site, there's less chance of
unexpected behaviour that needs a "clear the cache first" fix.

[//]: # (2026-05-04-blogmore-v2-19-0.md ends here)
