---
title: BlogMore v2.22.0
date: 2026-05-13 13:53:04+0100
category: Coding
tags: BlogMore, Coding, PyPI, Python
---

As mentioned [a couple of days ago](/2026/05/11/speeding-up-blogmore.html),
I've been toying with finding areas of improvement in respect to [the
performance of
BlogMore](https://www.yakshaving.co.uk/posts/blogmore-performance/). Until
now, [for good reasons](https://wiki.c2.com/?PrematureOptimization), I've
not really paid any attention to how fast (or slow) BlogMore is when it
comes to generating my blog. While it's never been blindingly fast, it's
always been fast enough and I was more keen on [making it work
right](https://wiki.c2.com/?MakeItWorkMakeItRightMakeItFast). So for a good
while the focus has been on well-formed output, stuff that keeps the
crawlers happy, that sort of thing.

But now that I'm in a place where new features aren't really so necessary,
it does feel like a good point to find any easy wins in speeding up the
code. I think it's gone well.

BlogMore [v2.22.0](https://blogmore.davep.dev/changelog/#v2220) contains
quite a few internal changes that speed up some core parts of site
generation. Many of the things identified by Gemini, back when I first
kicked this process off, have been done. The amount of Markdown->HTML
conversion work has been vastly reduced, which has had a pretty big impact
on all sorts of things. There's also caching of the FontAwesome metadata[^1]
which should save a fair bit of time on slower connections. I did avoid the
whole business of parallel processing as I dabbled with this near the start
of the project and I could not wrangle a win out of that at all; given how
much of a win I've had with these changes, I doubt that would change (it
could conceivably make things worse).

So, how much faster is it? Roughly, based on my tests, a site generates in
about 1/4 of the time it did before. On my M2 Mac Mini my blog builds in
under 3 seconds; with v2.21.0 it took around 13 seconds. In my case that's
with all the optional features of BlogMore turned on.

Naturally this work has touched on a *lot* of internals of the code, and
made significant changes to the generation pipelines of lots of different
pages and features. I've done my absolute best to compare[^2] the output of
v2.21.0 and v2.22.0 and I can't see any significant differences[^3]. When
trying out v2.22.0 I would suggest paying just a little extra attention to
the result, to be sure you're happy that nothing has changed.

[^1]: It lives in `~/.cache/blogmore` on Unix and Unix-like systems, or
    `%LOCALAPPDATA%\blogmore\cache` on DOS/VMS-influenced systems.
[^2]: Lots of `diff -rq` and then diffing an assorted sample of files that
    showed differences to inspect what was actually different.
[^3]: Actually, there's a small difference in the context shown in
    backlinks, but this was a deliberate change and a very small cosmetic
    enhancement.

[//]: # (2026-05-13-blogmore-v2-22-0.md ends here)
