---
title: BlogMore v2.26.0
date: 2026-05-22 17:01:02+0100
category: Coding
tags: BlogMore, Coding, HTML, PyPI, Python, web
---

The [previous release of BlogMore](/2026/05/20/blogmore-v2-25-0.html) had
some work that improved the HTML, ensuring that [the HTML
validator](https://validator.w3.org) was happy with the generated code.
Yesterday evening I ran it over more of the pages, and found a couple more
things that made sense to address.

So [v2.26.0](https://blogmore.davep.dev/changelog/#v2260) takes this a
little further and tries to clean more things up. Changes include:

- The comment email invitation box is now created with a `div` rather than a
  `section`, resolving a validation error about there being no `h2` or
  similar inside the `section` (because we don't need any kind of heading in
  there).
- Cleaned up an error relating to the misuse of an `aria-label` in the [graph
  page](/graph/).
- Cleaned up an error relating to the misuse of an `aria-label` in the [stats
  page](/stats/).
- Removed the `h2` elements from the sidebar, making them into `div`s with
  the same style. This leaves headings as something that will only appear in
  the main body of any page or post.
- Added some heading-demoting to the rendering of posts so that the heading
  structure of any given post is retained when it's part of any of the
  archive-style pages (date archives, category archives, tag archives, etc).

While not all of the above were being reported as validation errors, all of
them should result in HTML that better fits what I'd want in the first
place.

[//]: # (2026-05-22-blogmore-v2-26-0.md ends here)
