---
title: BlogMore v2.29.0
date: 2026-05-25 08:29:56+0100
category: Coding
tags: BlogMore, Coding, PyPI, Python, a11y
---

A quick update to [BlogMore](https://blogmore.davep.dev/) that stems from a
couple of accessibility concerns raised when using [PageSpeed
Insights](https://pagespeed.web.dev/). While the accessibility score on
pages generated by BlogMore is pretty excellent (96/100), a couple of things
were highlighted that seemed worth tackling in some way.

The first was that the title bar of code blocks is rather low in contrast,
especially the name of the language. This was a deliberate choice on my
part; when I'd prompted [Copilot](/tag/copilot/) to do this work some time
back I'd expressly asked it to make the text "subtle". While I could have
undone that, I do like how it looks and would like to retain it if possible.
So, as an experiment, I've used
[`prefers-contrast`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/At-rules/@media/prefers-contrast)
as a signal that I shouldn't do that. So now there's a bit of extra CSS
under `prefers-contrast: more` which just uses the normal text colour for
those headers.

I imagine this *won't* boost the score on PageSpeed Insights -- presumably
it won't simulate that being used -- but I would hope it's an improvement
for those who do need the extra contrast.

The other issue that was flagged up was the lack of an underline on the
email address link in the comment-via-email invitation box (the optional
feature I [added back in v2.17.0](/2026/04/27/blogmore-v2-17-0.html)). That
one was an easy fix. There was no reason to avoid an underline on the link,
so I added one.

[//]: # (2026-05-25-blogmore-v2-29-0.md ends here)
