---
title: "become.el v1.4.0"
date: "2026-06-16 16:19:59+0100"
category: Emacs
tags: [Emacs, "Emacs Lisp", Lisp, "become.el", coding]
series: ["~/.emacs.d"]
---

In the last month or so, as I've mentioned a few times before, I've been
trying to tidy up some of my older personal [Emacs Lisp](/tag/emacs-lisp/)
packages. I *thought* I'd updated all the ones I commonly use, but it turns
out I hadn't. Somehow I'd missed
[`become.el`](https://github.com/davep/become.el).

This is another one of those packages whose content started out as ad-hoc
commands, added to the `~/.emacs` that first started to emerge as I got to
know Emacs on OS/2 and then GNU/Linux back in the mid-1990s. I think it was
back in 2016[^1], when I did [a big revamp of my Emacs
environment](/2016/05/26/starting_fresh_with_gnu_emacs.html), that I moved
all of those roughly-related commands out into their own file.

Honestly, I think I can dump most of them now. There's stuff in there for
quickly and easily converting buffers between "DOS format" and "Unix format"
(from back when I was still working a lot on Windows machines, and sometimes
even in MS-DOS-based virtual machines, and often using the
[DJGPP](https://www.delorie.com/djgpp/)-built version of Emacs).

One command I still use all the time is
`become-free-of-trailing-whitespace`, because I have that set up as part of
a `before-save-hook`:

```elisp
(use-package become
  :ensure t
  :defer t
  :vc (:url "https://github.com/davep/become.el" :rev :newest)
  :commands become-free-of-trailing-whitespace
  :init
  (unless noninteractive
    (add-hook 'before-save-hook #'become-free-of-trailing-whitespace))
  :bind
  ("<f12> <tab>" . become-freshly-indented-no-tabs))
```

While I know that there are better ways of handling the trailing space issue
these days, this is one I rolled for myself a couple of decades ago and it's
yet to fail me. You can see just how dated it is from this:

```elisp
(cl-flet ((is-sig-line ()
                       (save-excursion
                         (beginning-of-line)
                         (looking-at "^-- $")))
          (markdown-br-p ()
                         (save-excursion
                           (beginning-of-line)
                           (and (eq major-mode 'markdown-mode)
                                (looking-at "^.+[^ ]  $")))))
; ...body removed
)
```

If you know, you'll know why `is-sig-line` is there[^2].

I do still use `become-freshly-indented-no-tabs` on occasion too, and have
it bound to an easy-to-remember and obvious (to me) key.

And so, despite the fact that most of the content of `become.el` is probably
obsolete at this point, despite the fact that there are probably far better
and more idiomatic ways of doing these things these days... it's my little
personal package that has grown with me in the 3 (and a bit) decades I've
had Emacs under my fingertips. I'm going to keep it around just a little
longer.

[^1]: The header for `become.el` says 2017, but I think the header itself
    came a little later when I [did some more work on my
    config](/2017/04/01/another_revamp_of_my_emacs_config.html).
[^2]: And if you don't know, [now you
    do](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signature_block#Standard_delimiter).

[//]: # (2026-06-16-become-el-v1-4-0.md ends here)
