---
title: "BlogMore v2.44.1"
date: "2026-06-28 14:01:33+0100"
category: Coding
tags: [BlogMore, Coding, PyPI, Python]
description: "I've just done a quick update to BlogMore, releasing v2.44.1. This fixes a cache/regeneration issue with auto-covers when you edit a post."
---

I've just done a quick update to [BlogMore](https://blogmore.davep.dev/),
bumping the version to v2.44.1. This release fixes an issue with
[auto-cover generation](/2026/06/27/blogmore-v2-44-0.html) where, if you
changed some properties relating to a post (or the blog as a whole), the
auto-covers weren't being updated to reflect those changes.

A good example is the description of a post. In the editorial-style cover,
the description is shown; this is taken either from the first paragraph of
the post or, if you've provided a `description` front matter value, it's
taken from that property. The problem was that if you changed the post such
that the text of the description changed, after a cover had been generated,
it wasn't regenerated because it was already in the cache.

So this release is a bit more aggressive about when it will ignore the
cached cover and generate a new one. The result is that the cover will
reflect the changes.

There is, of course, a small downside to all of this (which was also an
issue for v2.44.0 too): if you're working on a new post in `serve` mode, any
time you change something that causes the cover to be recreated, the older
versions of the cover will be left in the cache; in other words, there's a
storage overhead to all of this.

For now, I'm just going to live with this downside (BlogMore has a cache
clearing command anyway, so if it becomes an issue you can always use that).
In the near future, though, I think I'm going to add a smart-clear
sub-command to the `cache` command (or perhaps a `--smart` switch to the
`clear` sub-command). This will go through the cache and find all the files
that aren't currently "valid" and remove them, leaving all the "good" cache
entries intact. That should be useful for occasional housekeeping without
needing to wipe out the whole cache, and so greatly slowing the next build
of a site because every single cover needs creating again, and every single
optimised image needs generating again (if you have image optimisation
turned on).

[//]: # (2026-06-28-blogmore-v2-44-1.md ends here)
