---
title: BlogMore v2.39.0
date: 2026-06-05 08:36:57+0100
category: Coding
tags: BlogMore, Coding, PyPI, Python, RSS, SEO, atom
---

[BlogMore](https://blogmore.davep.dev/)
[v2.39.0](https://blogmore.davep.dev/changelog/#v2390) has a couple of
changes, one more or less cosmetic, the other a new feature that I probably
should have added right near the start of the project.

First, the cosmetic: in pages and posts, when you use headings (`#`, `##`,
etc.), a `¶` is added to the end of each heading, along with some
show-on-mouse-hover styling, to make it easy to grab the anchor of a
particular section of a page[^1]. A problem I'd noticed with this recently
is that the `¶` shows up in the [search](/search/) text, and also in the
content of all the feeds. While not a problem as such, it felt untidy.

So, with this release that particular `¶` character is stripped from the
search index and from the feeds.

The second change is a facility that should be useful if you have legacy
URLs that you really must have land on an actual page or post: redirection
support.

This facility is provided by [a new `redirect_from` frontmatter
property](https://blogmore.davep.dev/writing_a_post/#redirect_from). From
now on, a page or a post can declare which URLs should be redirected to it.
So, if you have a post that, [given your current post location
setup](https://blogmore.davep.dev/configuration/#post_path), would land at
`/2006/06/06/hello-world/`, but in some other incarnation of your blog lived
at `/posts/2006-06-06-hello-world.html`, you can now set this in the
frontmatter:

```yaml
redirect_from: /posts/2006-06-06-hello-world.html
```

and the old URL will be redirected to the new one. This is achieved by
simply creating a very minimal HTML file at the old location, which contains
a redirection. The content of the file will end up looking something like
this:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <title>Redirecting...</title>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://example.com/2006/06/06/hello-world/">
    <meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0; url=/2006/06/06/hello-world/">
  </head>
  <body>
    <p>Redirecting to <a href="/2006/06/06/hello-world/">/2006/06/06/hello-world/</a>...</p>
  </body>
</html>
```

If a blog has migrated between locations and/or generation tools over the
years, and there are a number of different legacy URLs out there still
pointing to a post you really want to keep readable to all, you can also
redirect from multiple URLs:

```yaml
redirect_from:
  - /posts/2006-06-06-hello-world.html
  - /posts/2006/06/06/hello-world.html
  - /my/really/old/blog/structure/hello-world-06-06-06.html
```

While all of this would have been possible anyway, by creating the
appropriate file, with the appropriate content, in [the `extras`
directory](https://blogmore.davep.dev/setting_up_your_blog/#the-extras-directory),
this approach helps automate the process and also means that the redirection
information lives with the page or post being redirected to.

[^1]: The [recently-added floating ToC](/2026/06/04/blogmore-v2-38-0.html)
    is another way to do this now too.

[//]: # (2026-06-05-blogmore-v2-39-0.md ends here)
