---
title: BlogMore v2.42.0
date: 2026-06-08 15:30:07+0100
category: Coding
tags: BlogMore, Coding, JSON, PyPI, Python
---

I've released [BlogMore
v2.42.0](https://blogmore.davep.dev/changelog/#v2420). This version is all
about changes to [the `dump`
command](https://blogmore.davep.dev/command_line/#dump-command).

When I [first added it](/2026/05/26/blogmore-v2-30-0.html) it simply dumped
all of the data available about posts within a blog, meaning [it was
possible to do all sorts of things with the
data](/2026/06/02/recreating-my-blog-stats.html) outside of BlogMore itself.
Having done this, and used the result to good effect (and also having seen
at least one person also make use of it), I got to thinking that I should
probably expose some other data that's going to be helpful.

Given that [`blogmore.el`](https://github.com/davep/blogmore.el) needs to
dive into things like available categories and tags, and given that I'd also
like to add support there for the [recently-added `series`
support](/2026/06/06/blogmore-v2-40-0.html), I realised that dumping those
values as JSON would also be helpful.

So this release extends the `dump` command, adding a set of sub-commands:

- `posts`: dumps the data about all posts in the blog (this is the default
  if you just run `blogmore dump`, so keeping the command
  backward-compatible).
- `categories`: dumps all categories as slug/title pairs.
- `tags`: dumps all tags as slug/title pairs.
- `series`: dumps all series as slug/title pairs.

For example, getting all categories from this blog:

```sh
blogmore dump categories
```
```json
[
  ["ai", "AI"],
  ["coding", "Coding"],
  ["creative", "Creative"],
  ["emacs", "Emacs"],
  ["gaming", "Gaming"],
  ["life", "Life"],
  ["meta", "Meta"],
  ["music", "Music"],
  ["python", "Python"],
  ["tech", "Tech"],
  ["til", "TIL"]
]
```

Or all the available series right now:

```sh
blogmore dump series
```
```json
[
  ["agentic-afterthoughts", "Agentic Afterthoughts"],
  ["buying-the-steam-controller", "Buying the Steam Controller"],
  ["edinburgh-fringe-2023", "Edinburgh Fringe 2023"],
  ["reading-2bit-files-for-fun", "Reading 2bit files (for fun)"],
  ["swift-til", "Swift TIL"],
  ["the-great-github-copilot-meltdown-of-2026", "The Great GitHub Copilot Meltdown of 2026"],
  ["the-virgin-east-coast-saga", "The Virgin East Coast Saga"],
  ["emacs-d", "~/.emacs.d"]
]
```

While this data *could* have been gathered from the content of the dump of
posts, this approach makes it far easier to work with and more accessible;
simply put, it means there's less work for the user to do if they just want
all the tags (for example). With this, and with a little bit of caching in
the code (because this does require parsing all the posts every time), I
think it will make for a better approach to category, tag and (when I add
it) series completion while writing a post.

[//]: # (2026-06-08-blogmore-v2-42-0.md ends here)
