---
title: "Wasat v0.1.0"
date: "2026-06-24 08:56:50+0100"
category: Python
tags: [AI, Antigravity, Coding, "Gemini Protocol", Python, smolweb]
---

I've just released [v0.1.0](https://wasat.davep.dev/changelog/#v010) of
[Wasat](https://wasat.davep.dev/), my async [Gemini
Protocol](/tag/gemini-protocol/) client library for
[Python](/category/python/).

Changes in this release include:

- Support for generating and storing client certificates to help when
  handling `6x` responses. This is still experimental.
- Updated the CLI to handle requests for input (handling `1x` responses).
- Added a `uri` property to the `Response` class, to expose the target URI
  reached from a request.
- Added a `history` property to the `Response` class, to expose the redirect
  history if redirection took place.
- Added a `requested_uri` property to the `Response` class, to expose the
  originally requested URI.
- Updated the CLI so that, when in verbose mode, it prints all of the
  available redirection information.

Most of the changes here are in support of resolving [an issue I found with
Rogallo yesterday](https://github.com/davep/rogallo/issues/22). With v0.1.0
available I should be able to update Rogallo with an easy fix.

So far, building this library, and [the client application](/tag/rogallo/),
is proving to be really interesting and educational. There's something fun
about building a "web browser" of sorts, from the ground up. It really hits
this point:

> *{Gemini might be of interest to you if you}* Are a hobbyist programmer
> with a "do it yourself" attitude who enjoys building their own tools and
> getting real use out of them every day

from the [Gemini protocol FAQ](https://geminiprotocol.net/docs/faq.gmi). For
me, in *"hobbyist programmer"* mode, this is all kinds of fun.

[//]: # (2026-06-24-wasat-v0-1-0.md ends here)
