---
title: "BagOfStuff v1.0.0"
date: "2026-06-23 16:32:39+0100"
category: Python
tags: [BagOfStuff, Coding, Python]
---

[BagOfStuff](https://bagofstuff.davep.dev/) started as a very small side
project when I was [working on](/2026/02/11/oldnews.html)
[OldNews](https://oldnews.davep.dev/) during my winter break, and then into
the new year. It began as some support code in OldNews, which was living in
a sort of tools section of the codebase (you know: the dreaded and
much-maligned `utils` section of the project). Sensing that something in it
could end up being of utility elsewhere, I moved it out into its own
library.

Having written some history-management type of code for the [Gemini
protocol](/tag/gemini-protocol/) client I'm working on, I got to thinking
that it too should move into this library; a benefit here being that I'll
eventually migrate [Hike](https://hike.davep.dev/)'s histories to this. With
that done, I've decided to promote BagOfStuff to v1.0.0 and call it stable.

I don't see this library growing too much; the old days of languages either
having a spartan standard library, or a third-party ecosystem that lacks
comprehensive coverage, are pretty far behind us, and Python suffers from
neither issue. On the other hand, there are some general-but-niche things
that I'm going to want for my own projects, which probably don't deserve a
library in their own right, which can live in here.

Also, sometimes, it's fun to just jam on a little problem and try to make
the personally-ideal approach to solving it. BagOfStuff serves that purpose
too.

[//]: # (2026-06-23-bagofstuff-v1-0-0.md ends here)
